[MUSIC]
Hi and welcome to Lecture 6.
In this lecture we will talk
about different kinds of strings.
That Ruby supports.
We also see many different methods
that are very useful in processing
the string API.
And finally we'll talk about symbols.
So Ruby has a single
quote literal string and
the single quote strings and
Ruby are very literal.
They show almost everything as is.
Double quoted strings, they have certain
characters, certain special characters.
For example, /n for new line, /t for tab.
And also, another very interesting
feature that they have is they'll allow
string interpolation.
So if you used to,
from other languages, concatenating
strings with a plus, forget about it.
And we'll see an example
of this in a minute.
But first, let's go back to the single and
double quoted strings.
So a single quoted string,
even if it has a \n in it,
it's gonna just display it as is.
Whereas a double quoted will
treat it as a new line, and
that's what you see as the output here.
Now, here's where string
interpolation comes in.
Let's say you have a method
that has parameter one and
two, and you need to multiply them.
And it needs to return a string that
says one multiplied by two equals
one multiplied by two.
So as you can see what's happening here
is that you are embedding the values,
eval actual parameters, or variables,
or even an expression,
one multiplied by two, and
that gets converted to a string and
you have one nice, long string.
And this is very useful, I think, and
very expressive in that you don't
have to stop and type one string,
then close it, then put a plus,
type a value, type another string.
It sort of just flows.
String methods usually
return a copy of the string,
they don't modify the string in place,
unless you use the version of a method
that has an exclamation at the end of it.
In that case, it just alerts you and
says hey, are you sure you want
to modify the string, and if you still do,
you use that version of a method.
And, that will modify
this string in place and
we'll see an example of that in a minute.
Another way to create a string is
by using the percent upper case Q.
And this behaves very similar
to a double quoted string but
another feature and adds that
allows you to span multiple lines.
So let's take a look at some
examples of using string methods.
You have my name variable which is for
example a space and the word Tim.
Now you could lstrip, which basically
means less strip, and capitalize,
which converts it to Tim without
the space in front of it.
Now but when you print, when you
look at the my_name variable again,
you'll see that the variable
did not change.
Why's that?
We'll that's because all of these
methods returned a copy but
didn't actually modify the variable.
If you would want to modify a variable
you would use the lstrip version
with an exclamation which
is a destructive version
which will actually modify
the variable in place.
Another way to override the actual
content of a variable is
by using this array notation,
so, in this case,
we're overriding the first character
of my_name variable over K, so now if
you print out my name variable you'll
see where it has been changed to Kim.
Here's an example of using a quote,
the percent upper case Q.
So it's a hot day outside,
grab your umbrellas.
Here we see that the extreme current
weather also supports the method lines,
which breaks the string
up into multiple lines.
And then you're able to use a block,
as we saw
blocks are very good at iterating things,
and
the block takes line as a parameter and
then you could modify,
you could substitute the strings inside.
At the end of the day you get, it's
a rainy day outside, grab your umbrellas,
instead of, it's a hot day
outside grab your umbrellas.
So, a lot of really useful methods and
you can really process information that
you have in very interesting ways.
So strings API should go through CRL.
Ruby dock core 2.2.2.
You'll see many different
methods that the string has.
And actually the API
the Ruby has is really nice.
A lot of examples that you could see
how things work and it's really nice.
The other kind of a string that actually
catches people by surprise is this idea of
a symbol.
So what is a symbol?
Symbol is basically a colon
followed by some string.
So for example, :foo-.
Symbols are just are highly
optimized strings.
They have much less methods than strings
and they really serve a different purpose.
They are constant names that
you don't have to pre declare.
And if you think about it there are two
types of strings, there is a string that
you want to look at the content,
you want to maybe make it uppercase,
lowercase, you want to extract something
from the content, so that's one type.
That's not what symbols are.
Symbols are what's called a stands for
something string type.
And basically the idea here
is that it's a symbol.
It's a symbol.
Think of like a flag or something.
It's just an indication that you want
something to happen, but you don't really
care what the exact string is and
if it's uppercase, lowercase.
That's not really the point of a symbol.
And we'll see how they are used.
The symbols are guaranteed
to be unique and immutable.
Now, if you want to go back and
forth between a string and a symbol,
you could do it as well.
So for example, you're using a symbol but
maybe you decide that you didn't want
to modify the content of the string,
you could just convert the symbol, call
the to_s method to convert it to a string.
Now if something is a string you
could also convert it to a symbol
by saying to_sym.
So a typical example of
what you see in Ruby,
a symbol is a representation
of a method name.
So for example on any object in Ruby,
you could just ask what are my methods?
And it'll give you all the methods
that this object supports.
In this case, actually, we are doing
something a little more than that,
we are grepping the methods for
the word case.
So as you could see here our
string hello has an upcase method,
a swapcase, which basically makes all
lowercase uppercase, uppercase lowercase.
And it's interesting
that as you would expect,
there is a regular version
that returns a copy of string.
And there is also very destructive
version that will actually modify
this string in place.
So upcase, downcase, swapcase.
As well.
But the point of this slide is that
this is a perfectly good
application of what a symbol is.
A method name is a symbol.
You're not interested in changing
the method name to something else,
it's just a way to capture information.
The object has bunch of methods and
method names are just symbols.
Now, if this still doesn't sound
convincing, there's definitely
a gray line between symbols and
strings and a lot of times.
You would expect it to be a string,
and it's a symbol or vice versa.
And actually, it's interesting that Ruby
itself, in the earlier versions of Ruby,
the names of methods were not symbols,
they were strings.
But, it really just becomes
a matter of taste a lot of times.
Something just makes
more sense as a symbol.
Some other things make
more sense as strings.
And sometimes as we see by hashes,
when we get to hashes,
it actually makes a lot of sense to use
a symbol as opposed to using a string.
In summary.
Strings give you the ability
to use interpolation.
And that's actually a very cool and
expressive, and
it lets you finish your thought.
Strings actually have a lot
of really useful API and
you guys should go look into that.
So what's next?
Next, we'll talk about arrays.